## Get the Source Code

First things first, you'll need the source! The Aurora source is available from Apache git:

    git clone https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/aurora

Read the Style Guides
---------------------
Aurora's codebase is primarily Java and Python and conforms to the Twitter Commons styleguides for
both languages.

- [Java Style Guide](https://github.com/twitter/commons/blob/master/src/java/com/twitter/common/styleguide.md)
- [Python Style Guide](https://github.com/twitter/commons/blob/master/src/python/twitter/common/styleguide.md)

## Find Something to Do

There are issues in [Jira](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/AURORA) with the
["newbie" label](https://issues.apache.org/jira/issues/?jql=project%20%3D%20AURORA%20AND%20labels%20%3D%20newbie%20and%20resolution%3Dunresolved)
that are good starting places for new Aurora contributors; pick one of these and dive in! Once
you've got a patch, the next step is to post a review.

## Getting your ReviewBoard Account

Go to https://reviews.apache.org and create an account.

## Setting up your ReviewBoard Environment

Run `./rbt status`. The first time this runs it will bootstrap and you will be asked to login.
Subsequent runs will cache your login credentials.

## Submitting a Patch for Review

Post a review with `rbt`, fill out the fields in your browser and hit Publish.

    ./rbt post -o

If you're unsure about who to add as a reviewer, you can default to adding Bill Farner (wfarner) and
Joshua Cohen (jcohen). They will take care of finding an appropriate reviewer for the patch.

Once you've done this, you probably want to mark the associated Jira issue as Reviewable.

## Updating an Existing Review

Incorporate review feedback, make some more commits, update your existing review, fill out the
fields in your browser and hit Publish.

    ./rbt post -o -r <RB_ID>

## Getting Your Review Merged

If you're not an Aurora committer, one of the committers will merge your change in as described
below. Generally, the last reviewer to give the review a 'Ship It!' will be responsible.

### Merging Your Own Review (Committers)

Once you have shipits from the right committers, merge your changes in a single commit and mark
the review as submitted. The typical workflow is:

    git checkout master
    git pull origin master
    ./rbt patch -c <RB_ID>  # Verify the automatically-generated commit message looks sane,
                            # editing if necessary.
    git show master         # Verify everything looks sane
    git push origin master
    ./rbt close <RB_ID>

Note that even if you're developing using feature branches you will not use `git merge` - each
commit will be an atomic change accompanied by a ReviewBoard entry.

### Merging Someone Else's Review

Sometimes you'll need to merge someone else's RB. The typical workflow for this is

    git checkout master
    git pull origin master
    ./rbt patch -c <RB_ID>
    git show master  # Verify everything looks sane, author is correct
    git push origin master

Note for committers: while we generally use the commit message generated by `./rbt patch` some
changes are often required:

1. Ensure the the commit message does not exceed 100 characters per line.
2. Remove the "Testing Done" section. It's generally redundant (can be seen by checking the linked
  review) or entirely irrelevant to the commit itself.

## Cleaning Up

Your patch has landed, congratulations! The last thing you'll want to do before moving on to your
next fix is to clean up your Jira and Reviewboard. The former of which should be marked as
"Resolved" while the latter should be marked as "Submitted".
