Java code in the aurora repo is built with [Gradle](http://gradle.org).

Getting Started
===============
You will need Java 7 installed and on your `PATH` or unzipped somewhere with `JAVA_HOME` set. Then

    ./gradlew tasks

will bootstrap the build system and show available tasks. This can take a while the first time you
run it but subsequent runs will be much faster due to cached artifacts.

Running the Tests
-----------------
Aurora has a comprehensive unit test suite. To run the tests use

    ./gradlew build

Gradle will only re-run tests when dependencies of them have changed. To force a re-run of all
tests use

    ./gradlew clean build

Creating a bundle for deployment
--------------------------------
Gradle can create a zip file containing Aurora, all of its dependencies, and a launch script with

    ./gradlew distZip

or a tar file containing the same files with

    ./gradlew distTar

The output file will be written to `dist/distributions/aurora-scheduler.zip` or
`dist/distributions/aurora-scheduler.tar`.

Developing Aurora Java code
===========================

Setting up an IDE
-----------------
Gradle can generate project files for your IDE. To generate an IntelliJ IDEA project run

    ./gradlew idea

and import the generated `aurora.ipr` file.

Adding or Upgrading a Dependency
--------------------------------
New dependencies can be added from Maven central by adding a `compile` dependency to `build.gradle`.
For example, to add a dependency on `com.example`'s `example-lib` 1.0 add this block:

    compile 'com.example:example-lib:1.0'

NOTE: Anyone thinking about adding a new dependency should first familiarize themself with the
Apache Foundation's third-party licensing
[policy](http://www.apache.org/legal/resolved.html#category-x).

Developing Aurora UI
======================

Installing bower (optional)
----------------------------
Third party JS libraries used in Aurora (located at 3rdparty/javascript/bower_components) are
managed by bower, a JS dependency manager. Bower is only required if you plan to add, remove or
update JS libraries. Bower can be installed using the following command:

    npm install -g bower

Bower depends on node.js and npm. The easiest way to install node on a mac is via brew:

    brew install node

For more node.js installation options refer to https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installation.

More info on installing and using bower can be found at: http://bower.io/. Once installed, you can
use the following commands to view and modify the bower repo at
3rdparty/javascript/bower_components

    bower list
    bower install <library name>
    bower remove <library name>
    bower update <library name>
    bower help

Developing the Aurora Build System
==================================

Bootstrapping Gradle
--------------------
The following files were autogenerated by `gradle wrapper` using gradle 1.8's
[Wrapper](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.wrapper.Wrapper.html) plugin and
should not be modified directly:

    ./gradlew
    ./gradlew.bat
    ./gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.jar
    ./gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties

To upgrade Gradle unpack the new version somewhere, run `/path/to/new/gradle wrapper` in the
repository root and commit the changed files.
